The University of Alberta has realized that we could save money by cutting down parts of English to form a new language for the university community.  There is a five-year phased-in plan that would take us to using the new language, Rhoglish, exclusively.

In the first year, all double consonants and spaces will be replaced with single ones.  Afterall, only old people put double spaces after periods and double letters are simply redundant.  Little can we predict how successful all will be, but it will be very well loved.

The jumping for joy will continue in the second year, where we will eliminate an entire letter from our alphabet.  Keyboards will no longer require the “c”.  "s" will replace the soft "c".  Certainly, this will make the civil servants happy. The hard "c" will be dropped in favor of the "k". This should clear up confusion.  Also it will be possible to pronounce the color "cyan".  Our work is not done.  We will replace all “ph” combinations with a simple “f”, so we can stop being so phony with our language.  Great phenomenon!  In addition, the letter combination “eigh” is very verbose for a simple “a”.  Neighbor, our writing will be eight times more clear and the weight on our shoulders will be reduced substantially.  Furthermore, the “gh” at the end of words should also be replaced by an “f”, (cough, cough, cough), because it looks ridiculous.  

There will be growing public enthusiasm by the 3rd year, so we encourage the removal of unnecessary double vowels such as the “a” in instances of “ea” and “oa”.  We moan when there is too much typing or reading.  Likewise the “u” in “ui” can just go.  We are building a much better language.  We will no longer be stuck when playing Scrabble if we have a “Q” without a “U” because we can make many words such as  “quick”, “quiet”, and “quibble”.

Universal acceptance of our new spelling is expected to surge in the 4th year, when we will make more complicated changes.  We will eliminate the horrible mess of silent “e”s at the end of words.  Also words that end with “ed” never have the “e” pronounced so take it out.  We have reduced our language further, much bettered.  And who pronounces anything but the “n” in words with “ing” at the end?  People will all be shouting and singing at this improvement!

But we can go even further.  The crazy combination of the “tio” is not functional and should be replaced by the proper “sho”.  We will get that right in motion, making sure we have plenty of coffee at our programming location.  Then we will make our speaking faster by getting rid of the “th” and saying “z” instead.  Thus, this makes things thoroughly and thoughtfully quick as we speak.   Of course, the silent “k”s and “w”s need to be eliminated to improve our writing and knowledge.  There will be no more troubles or difficulties.  Everyone will find it phenomenally easy to understand each other, in reading, writing and knitting, even after a rough beginning.  

The dream will finally come true!